A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.
Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.
A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.
Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.
The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.
After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.
It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.
Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles
The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.
Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.
In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.
A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.
Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.
Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.
On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.
Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.
Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.
If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.
The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.
Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6
Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.
In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.
A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""
When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.
Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.
Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.
The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).
Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.
Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body
The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.
A form of AIDS exists in cats.
Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.
The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.
Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.
The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.
A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.
The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".
While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
Milk can give some cats diarrhea.
The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.
Cat's urine glows under a black light.
In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).
Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.
Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.
A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.
There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.
Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.
Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.
The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).
On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.
Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.
The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).
Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.
Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.
In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i
A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.
In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i
When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.
